Top 7 Strength Exercises To Increase Speed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fTkOHTdN7no
The fastest athletes in the world are incredibly strong. And science has shown that you need to get decently strong so you can handle a large amount of force to run quickly. And that's exactly why we brought in world renowned speed and strength coach, Faris Khan. And we're going to walk through seven different strength exercises that you can use to get stronger and in turn get faster. And we're going to start right now. So this is one of my all time favorite exercises to build strength and speed. but with our own little twist. What we got here is of course our single leg squats. But when we're talking about strength and speed and specifically using strength solely for the purpose of developing speed is that we want to be able to control energy. 
And if we can focus on some key aspects around strength training, we'll see a better transfer that will bridge us to that realm of speed. Okay, so what I'm gonna do here, Ferris, I'm gonna get here. I'm gonna go one, two, three, and as soon as that knee touches, I wanna drive up as quickly as possible. So I'm here, one, two, three. One more. You have to make that noise. I'll try my best. Some of the best running backs, some of the best soccer players that we've trained, even if you're working with a nice hockey player, right? You're in this position, usually in your sport. If you can control this and get comfortable, you can probably get out of these situations really well. 
So here. Nice. One more. And the best part too is on that slow eccentric. So it's a single leg squat with a slow eccentric. I'll really feel that if I get just a slight lean forward, it's gonna lengthen my glute and that slow eccentric, I'll target my glute and I'll feel that more when I'm driving up on the concentric. Give me a triple on each. I would say for a workout, you know, four to five sets, Two to three reps with that three second eccentric. Cool, cool. So right back over here, and I see where you mentioned that stability factor. Nice and slow. And then I got up there. There you go, there you go. Nice sound too, perfect. Good. I don't know if that sound was right. 
Sensational. That's good though. I like that. And I really do feel it over in the glutes. That stabilization factor. Oh, good. Nice. Now go real slow on this last one. That burn. Good, perfect, perfect. That's a lot tougher than it looks, but I can see how this has a good transfer over especially when we work more towards that right side of the force velocity, because this is going to really build us up nicely. So I love it. So four or five sets, two to three reps, have that two to three second controlled on that last rep. I do like to add even more, maybe four or five seconds up as fast as possible. That's going to take us into that next key exercise. 
So that second key exercise is a staggered stance trap bar. We know that the trap bar is already incredible when it comes to overall lower body development. You've got the quads, your hamstrings, your glutes doing tons of work. But with that staggered stance, we get to actually have a little bit more unilateral loading while keeping full stabilization. So I'm going to set up just like I'm in an exact same position as I'm doing a regular trap bar. But now I'm going to bring one leg directly behind. So all my weight is going to be on that front foot and the back one is merely just there to stabilize. And then from here, I'm just going to engage the lats like you do a normal deadlift. 
And I'm going to push hard onto that front foot. Nice control down. This really gets that unilateral, and of course, you gotta do both sides with it as well. Nice and controlled. And make those sound effects. Yes. Good. So I tend to do about three to four sets of three to four reps per side, but if I'm using heavier loads, I'll even use two reps per side. Go ahead and try this out, man. Okay, so I wanted to bring up when we did a collab with Phil DeRue, he had talked about split stance, and he does them quite a bit. And I was like, ah, I don't know. I brought up like issues with the back and he's like, no, that's not even a concern, which you're talking with you and seeing you do this. 
I don't even know why I had that in my mind as a concern. Cause I think this is going to be perfectly a very, very good lift. I've never actually done this lift. This will be the first time I've ever done it. Also what's interesting and what has me sold on this even further is that there's a video of you. And I want to say like, you're in like a, you're either off of a box or like, you might even be like sitting like this and then you jump off of one leg and you like catapult like 40 feet off of one jump. And it's literally directly from here. And it made me think like, dude, this is the big factor. Like this would help with the first couple of strides in the drive phase. 
As I'm watching you get set. And I think that was another thing is like you got set and you put this here and then you came forward and you're here, right? And then it's pretty much the same deadlift mechanics that you would do And you can really feel that focus being on the front. I think the biggest thing for me was like, I just never paid attention to how somebody would do this. Oh, yeah. It's one of those creative exercises. But when it does come to unilateral strength, having that full stability. Full stability is crazy. Let's go, man. Give me a triple. There we go. Like, even... I guess I'm sort of pissed. Cause I'm like, why haven't I done this? So just standing there feeling that it's like, even like a DN coming off the edge here, like they're getting set. 
It's like, that's the same. This is like you pair this or like, maybe one day you're single leg squat and next day you're here. It's like. Oh yeah, exactly. Two great exercises. You can have a little bit more hinge focus. You can have more squat focus. Yeah. So then the pairing gets even more fun. Yeah, exactly. Okay. We got those two key exercises. Now we're gonna get into that third movement that we can use to increase your speed. Okay. So this third key exercise, we're gonna get into a position where we're right around our weak point. And I really like to use this with offensive linemen, with defensive linemen, even with shot putters. It might be a little bit higher if we're using this with shot putters. 
With linemen, I think going a little bit deeper can help them get a little bit more hip strength out of that lower position when they're coming off the line. Swimmers will benefit from this as well coming off the blocks and when they hit that flip turn. So what we're going to do is we're going to get into a position here where we're on pins and then we're going to do a driving squat off the pins as quickly as possible. I'm without a little trick, then we're going to add in a little trick that's going to help you even more with that reactiveness. So we're going to get set. Oh, boom. Come down and control this. Now, one thing I want to talk about, too, is that you don't want to come down and just tap and go like this. 
Back up. We want to come down. One, two, boom. Now, what I want Ferris to do, he's going to give me an auditory command. So this is that unique trick that you can use to improve that power output. Almost think about a sprinter coming out of the blocks. Again, the swimmer coming off the blocks or even that D lineman reacting quickly to the ball being snapped. So you could even do that with a football if you wanted to. But Ferris is going to give me that auditory command. We'll do a double here and then he's going to check it out. Go. There you go. Go. Nice. All right. So you can get that set. Okay. React as fast as possible. And you're even going to have like a naturally tighter trunk just coming off that. 
Cause you have that urgency. You have a little bit of anticipation waiting for that command. Oh yeah. I like that. I like that. Usually I would do like probably five triples here. So Ferris has to, how about two without me calling and then two where I call you. Up. Good. Control down. Yep. Good. Now I'll give you the command. Go. Good. Go. Good. Perfect. You notice there too, I think it's important that you can give a little bit of delay. Like you can get consistent and then wait a little bit. Think about with D linemen especially is you can change up that cadence and that can make things a little bit harder. But when you're trying to use strength to improve speed, you've got to get tricky. 
You've got to get sneaky with all the different tactics that you're going to use inside the weight room. Oh, yeah, I love it. And that auditory cue at the end changes the entire exercise. Great one for lower body development. I can see how this really works out. So exercise number four, and I absolutely love this one. It's the hand supported single leg RDL. Now, I love having a little bit of stability when it comes to my unilateral work, because when we look at sprinting or almost any athletic movement that we're doing, they're going to be performed unilaterally. But if you're always training unilaterally and if you're somebody who struggles with balance or stabilization issues, then you're not going to be able to load it up and get the full benefit of that strength. 
You'll get some other stuff, but I'm really focused on strengthening this up right here. So I'm going to grab this dumbbell and I'm just going to hold on to something. It could be a rack, it could be whatever, something nice and sturdy. And there's a couple of different ways I like to do this. I like to go ahead and start with like a controlled RDL and then come up nice and quick. You can also play with the eccentric, making it more fast. So we work that speed strength. And then you can also do a controlled eccentric and concentric. And of course you want to do this one on both sides. How you would do this one based off of the tempo is really about what you're trying to achieve here. 
So for me, I like to go nice and slow with eccentric and then concentric, nice and explosive. Don't ever forget those sound effects. Yes. and an easy about five to six per side and you'll be good to go. Okay. I want to, I want to try this because I have also never done this movement. So I, dude, I, I feel like I play around and I test and I experiment with thousands and thousands and thousands of exercises. So much so that a lot of the athletes, like when they're lifting and they're laughing because I'm literally just making movements up and like troubleshooting and trying to figure out how we can solve some problems. So the fact that we have two that I have never done, now I've done an RDL, but I haven't done an assisted. 
And even while I was watching you, you know, we're here, wait, is this right? Yeah, there you go. Come through. Exactly. Even as I was watching you, it's like, because of this, you can change that tempo, right? And just use that as a guide, come through. It almost reminded me, if you have somebody who I don't know, maybe they respond really well to really heavy hamstring work. I felt like I could even, because I have this, it's almost like a cheat curl. Not that you're cheating your strength, but you can use that on that eccentric and blow up that hamstring strength just by having that there. So I want to do this side. So I don't have that imbalance. Oh, I'm so tight there. 
My right leg. Nice, there you go. Good. Try one fast down, fast up. Okay. And that's where, I know we talked about this a little bit off camera, that reminded me of our drop dumbbell where we would go here, drop, come through into that snatch. So it's like a reflexive where drop, try and absorb that as quickly as possible and cycle through. But I almost feel like the progression would be, we would do this, the drop dumbbell snatch, maybe closer to a peak. Yeah. And this would be like that let the speed one would be like that last phase. Oh yeah, before we get real fast. Yeah. High velocity work. So yeah, three sets, about six to eight per side. You can really load this one up once you get comfortable with it. 
I absolutely love it. All right, so exercise five, and i just warmed up with this movement. I'm gonna show you guys. This is an exercise that i've shown in the past. I love to do this to really dial in my hamstring strength, hip extension as well. Now, When I was warming up, I said something to Ferris that I made fun of myself because I was the naysayer about the split stance trap bar deadlifts. And then as I got on and I did this exercise, I realized this is almost that exact movement, just in a different plane. So we're going to get set here. Okay, so this is called the sprinter glute ham. And I like to have my top foot here, planted on that plate. 
And I try to go a little bit flat footed on this one that's actually hooked in. We're going to go here. One, two, three, up. Nice. And typically I would say, try to use your weak leg first. So for me, that would be generally my right leg is a little bit weaker. Now I can get my left leg in here. I like doing this as an accessory on a leg day. So it might be like three to four sets, seven reps each side. Try to feel that real good hamstring work here. Extend that hip. Oh yeah, I can definitely see how this is really working that hamstring well. Good. Good, good, good. Yeah, if you see, so now his feet are back a little bit further than mine were relative, just because I'm a little slightly taller. 
So it's like- Woo, that's tough. He'll feel maybe a little bit more lower back and hamstrings. So I think that's another thing that you can play around with where the foot plate's going to be. That's good. Up fast. And you can even have like a Come up here, hit my hand. Boom. Yep. I hold that a little more at the top. Boom. Right there. Good. So you can really get creative with that. Nice it up. Yeah. You can either put some isometric work. You can throw someone down. They got to react quickly. So it can almost turn into some type of plyometric. But the reason why I was making fun of myself is it reminded me a lot of that split stance trap bar deadlift. 
So that just shows me how much you can really open up your mind about specific exercises. Get out of your own way and those own prejudgments of specific movement patterns. get into your comfort zone with some things that you're used to doing and you can build this up and this does transfer really well to some good speed work. Exercise number six, these are some sled toes. Now this is not to get mistaken with some sled sprints because you want to load this up a little bit heavier than if you were to run with it. If you were running, I wouldn't go more than about 10 to 15 percent of my body weight, but with those heavy marches, you're going to be able to load it up to even 30 or even more. 
I've got a sled attached right here with a little bit of weight. I'm using a harness that's attached to my hips. You can even do one where you're pushing. You can do one where you're pulling. It really doesn't matter too much. And this is where it gets extremely specific to sprinting because it's the same exact mechanics. You're going to be marching hard and you want to maintain a position where you're about 45 degrees, which is very similar to when you're accelerating. And if you take a look at my feet, I'm really pushing off of that ball of my foot to work that Achilles so it can be very explosive off of the floor. there you go. Push right off that ball of the foot. 
Nice and low there we go there we go it's funny because i can feel the split stance trap bars, like i'm trying to visualize everything and and even what we did with the with the rdl and the transfer that you talked about with those exercises. Now this being more specific. And if we had like two or three more plates on there, you take that in a program and then you start building that like the next phase or maybe like two or three days later, you do sled towing with five to 10% body weight. Oh yeah. Your mechanics could improve like solely based off the fact that you're getting stronger. So I think that using this, you know, you could go a little bit heavier, 30, 40% of your body weight. 
You'll feel that in your glutes quite a bit in your quads and in the Achilles. Cause I was even thinking like you had, you had sort of cued me up like, like on my heels. Exactly. Stay on the ball of my foot. I think you said. And while I was doing it, I was thinking like, don't let that heel drop. And just sometimes, I talked about this in a speed video that we did where Noah Lyles spent like two weeks just focusing on a lack of a heel drop during his acceleration phase. And I think that that's just some real key things that strength can improve upon. That in turn leads to that overall speed development. And yeah, just like you said, I would definitely load this up even heavier, work that Achilles, work some acceleration from some slower velocities. 
And even if you do about six sets of This is what, like 30 yards? Yeah, yeah, about 20, 30 yards, yep. So even if you do about six sets of about 20 yards, it's going to be a huge benefit for you, super specific, and maybe we'll be at the Olympics. Yeah, there we go. Maybe we'll be there. Now, these are probably my all-time favorite strength exercise for speed. I'm going to do another one real quick. I'm going to come down, control this. I want to have minimal hip flexion. Oh, that's hard. Now, one of the big things I was talking to Ferris about this is that early on at Garage Strength, we didn't have one of these machines. We actually built this wooden thing and all of the fast kids were really good at Nordics. 
Okay. No matter what, they were always good at Nordics. So I started to play around with the idea of, all right, if these guys that are really fast are good at Nordics, what if we get the slow kids to get better at Nordics? And then in turn, what ended up happening is the kids that were slow, actually ended up running faster. A lot of that was due to that slow eccentric here and then that knee flexion bringing that torso back up. So it's control, control, control. And back up. Now, a couple things that ferris has mastered is how to regress from this movement and how to build somebody through progressions back up and even coming up with cool different alternatives. Yeah, so like you said, this is one of the greatest hamstring exercises you can do. 
And believe it or not, it's a lot harder than the way we're making it look. So if you can't do it this way, then one regression you can do is still try to come down nice and slow, minimal bend in the hips, and then you can actually use your hands to push yourself back up. So that way you still do get that full eccentric portion of the movement, and then you are pushing and you still have to work to come up as well. And if you don't have one of these, You can do Nordics almost anywhere. You can actually set yourself up under a barbell, load it up with plates, have some other weights to stop the barbell from rolling, head up and down. 
You can do it under a couch. You can do it under a car. You can have somebody hold your legs. There are so many different ways to do this. And if you really are an athlete who wants to get faster, then you've got to be doing these Nordics. One of my favorite rep schemes would be like, let's do three, four sets, five to seven reps, and then maybe one drop set of like 10 to 12 reps. If you're capable of doing that. So Ferris just challenged me to a comp. Is there a body weight handicap? Hey, nah, nah, you strong. So you got this, all right? What's the comp? All right, we're going to go as many as possible. As many as possible? 
With good form. All right, ready? Let's go. I don't know if that's good form for me. You look pretty good, man. Man, for someone who's carrying a lot of mass, that's extremely impressive, man. Getting close to getting a calf cramp. I'm going to do one more. Ah, you got this, man. Let's go. Come on. All right, maybe one more. Oh, we're not stopping today. Oh, that's good. Let's go. Jesus. Yo, that's crazy. I'm about to catch a cramp right there, guys. So use all seven of these exercises if you're trying to get faster and if you're just trying to get stronger. Now, Ferris, where can people check you out? You can find me on Instagram and YouTube at Brother Ferris. And if you guys want to check out a virtual summit that Ferris and I did together, you can click the link down in the description. 
Head over and you can pick that up today so there's even more knowledge bombs. Because remember, freaks, if you want to become a champion, you've always got to cultivate your power. Peace. 