You Are NOT Strong Enough To Be Fast
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fPrxPyqlI8w
Can weight room numbers predict your speed? We're gonna find out and we're gonna start, right? Let's get into the 60 second breakdown. So to run faster, we need to be extremely explosive right off the start. We have to have good overcoming strength. Okay, so be explosive right at the start. The second key factor to being fast, to running very quickly, is that we have to have a strong drive phase. We have to be able to accelerate very very rapidly and we have to have a steep shin angle to do so, which is going to lead us to light up our Achilles. It's going to lead us to light up our quads and our glutes. So we've got to be strong in those areas. 
Then we have to have a very strong transition. So as we're transitioning out of acceleration and we're getting into top speed, we have to have good dynamic trunk control. Okay, we have to be stable through our hip girdle. We have to have elastic joints. Okay, and then long term when we're training at max velocity, we also have to recognize that we have to have good movement, good mechanics, good technique. All these things come back to specific movements that now we can build on and identify in the weight room to train each specific area of being fast. So we gave you the mechanics that you need around sprinting. Now we're going to go into the specific strength, movements, and numbers. Okay, so that first exercise is going to be a power snatch. 
Now, we talked about really explosive overcoming strength. So being able to have a very rapid start. And also we even mentioned about accelerating, okay? One of the key aspects around speed-based work is accelerating as quickly as possible. So having that good overcoming strength, that's where power snatch comes into play. If we have 180 pound male or a 130 pound female, Those numbers that we're going to look for are going to be 1.1 times body weight for the male. That's going to be about 198 pounds. We have a female that weighs about 130 pounds. We're going to look for 0.9 times body weight. That's going to put us around 115 to 117. One of the key aspects behind the power snatch is it's going to give you that really explosive first step. 
It's also going to help you decelerate as well. Now, the key factor here, too, to remember is that these are numbers to work towards. These are numbers to build to. There's going to be some anomalies that have numbers that are higher than this, and they still might be a little bit slow. And there's gonna be some on the other side that don't have these numbers, and they're still fast. But in all reality, we need to work towards these numbers to build that speed. Now, the next lift that we wanna focus on, we want to find something that's gonna help us with that overcoming strength, again, to have a very powerful start. Working on an explosive start leads us into the ability to also stop 
and restart if we're in a field sport or a court sport, okay? So we need to look at what the sprinters are doing, okay? What's Majinga Kambunji doing, okay? What's Noah Lyles doing? What are these freak athletes doing in their training that helps them improve that start position so they can accelerate as quickly as possible? And that takes us into the power clean, okay? So if we have that 180 pound male, we want him to be able to clean about one and a half times body weight. And what that means is that if we have 180 pound male, okay, if they can clean one and a half times body weight, that's gonna put us around 270 pounds. Now, we know that they can accelerate and implement the barbell very, very rapidly. 
We also know that when they catch that, they're gonna have that dynamic trunk control. So they're gonna be very, very sturdy in the catch. If we have 130 pound female, we want that individual to clean, at their best, about 1.25 times body weight. Now, if you have someone like Erin Gadson, who's one of the best jump coaches in the world and has some of the fastest jumpers in the world, a lot of his women jumpers are gonna clean 185, 190 pounds for reps. But 1.25 times body weight for a female sprinter will put us around 165 pounds, okay? That's pretty reasonable. If we have athletes that can hit these numbers, you know, 1.5, 1.25, and they can build up to that and they have that explosive position and they have good technique and they have good sprint mechanics, along with that twitchy athletic muscle, 
now we can keep building to better speed. Okay, so that next exercise is going to help us again with that start, but it's also going to help us a lot during the drive phase, during max acceleration. And we're going to do this on our sweet zkc plates and zkc scoop stands with our tokyo 2020 barbell. Okay, that exercise is going to be a back squat. So we want to execute this, okay, where we get nice and controlled. And I want to see for men, about 1.7 times body weight for five reps. For women, I wanna see that at 1.4 times body weight for five reps. And so for a dude, he's gonna be back squatting five reps at about 305 pounds with pretty good speed, okay? 
For a woman that weighs about 130 pounds, that's gonna look at about 185 pounds. Now, sprinters love to squat like this. I do think it can be beneficial during their peaking to have quarter squats. I still think sprinters should be working on a little bit more full range of motion because of the transfer that we see on the dynamic trunk control. So I do think they can have better speed with better depth. And that's gonna help them coming out of the blocks. Okay, so the next exercise, okay. Remember, overcoming strength, elasticity. We need to be as elastic as possible. Elastic like a kangaroo, total beast. Okay, one of the things that when I was in Tokyo at the Olympics in 2021, When we would go into the gym, you could see what all the best athletes were doing, okay? 
You could see what the best sprinters were doing. You could see the Jamaican team with Elaine Thompson-Hara, with Shellyann Fraser-Price, with Sharika Jackson, okay? All these total freaks, okay? They were doing various squats, right? And they might do a front squat to a box, but I do believe front squats could be done with full range of motion here. Boof, boof, boof. Okay. I think that the front squat is absolutely phenomenal for developing speed. It's also phenomenal for improving the mobility and stability in your ankles. Okay. And having that upright trunk, having that sweet dynamic trunk control. If we're a dude, we weigh 180 pounds. Okay. I want to see about 1.5 times body weight for three good, strong, unbroken reps. So that's going to put us around 270 pounds for that 180 pound dude. 
For a chick that weighs 130 pounds, we're gonna look at 1.25 times body weight. Again, three reps, rapid, good, strong reps that are elastic and quick moving, okay? We don't wanna be super, super grindy. Now, remember, back squat, front squat. These are numbers that we can build to. Yes, some sprinters will squat way more than that. Some sprinters will squat a little bit less. Someone like Elaine, she's got longer legs. She's not as strong with a squat. as someone like Shellyann Fraser-Price. Okay, so just keep that in mind. There are different body types and we've just gotta be aware of that, that some of those sprinters that are a little bit shorter will have a better squat. But if you're training for a field sport or you're training for a court sport, okay, if you're training for athletics in general and you need to be fast, these are great numbers to work towards and execute at high speeds. 
Okay, the next exercise is not gonna be a standard movement that you see in most sprinter groups, athletic coaches, okay, most sports performance coaches are still barely using this movement, even though i believe it's probably the absolute best strength movement, absolute strength movement you can use to increase your speed. And that's going to be single leg squats that you're going to execute on the garage strength single leg squat stand and the garage strength balance pad. We use this to develop speed in all of our athletes, okay? We even use this movement with our weightlifters to help improve their overall structural balance, okay? That's the cool part around the single leg squat is that it's gonna enhance dynamic trunk control, it's gonna light up the glutes, and if you move that front foot a little closer, if you have somebody who sucks during the drive phase with acceleration, you can target their quads. 
If they're very good during the drive phase, but they've got weaker hamstrings, lengthen that front leg, and now you can target the glutes and the hamstrings a little bit more, okay? The glutes are always gonna be sore after they do this, so we've just gotta be aware of that. Now, when a dude is executing a single leg squat, and I'll demonstrate quickly here, is that we wanna get set up, okay? We're gonna have that front foot here, put that back leg up and we want one, two, three. Okay, then left leg. We don't want any hiccups, no crazy hiccups. A lot of athletes will say, oh, well, you know, I wanna do more weight or it's not the weight, it's my balance. Balance plays a role in your speed, okay? 
If you can recruit well, you're not gonna be falling all over the place. Now we're here. Now, those numbers that we need to build towards after we pick up that garage strength single leg stand at garage strength dot com is going to be one point four times body weight for dudes. That's going to put us around 250 to 255 pounds, three reps each leg. For women, we're going to be looking at about one point two times body weight. That's going to put us around 155 to 160 for women. OK, three reps each leg. I do think some of these numbers for women are a little bit too low, but Most of the women's population still sadly is untrained. Here at Garage Strength, we've got a ton of freak athlete females. 
So these numbers are a little bit on the low side, about 83 to 85% of what the dudes are doing. But I think as we get better at coaching women, those numbers are going to get closer to about 90%. So keep that stuff in mind. 1.4, 1.2, three reps each leg, good control. Next exercise. Now, this is a movement that I think one plays a massive role in protecting athletes as far as injury prevention is concerned. There is also, in my opinion, a large amount of anecdotal evidence, is what I'm going to call it, that every single fast athlete that we've ever coached, all the power five football guys, all the savage soccer players, lacrosse players, everybody that is fast, that we know are quick, they've always been very, very good at the Nordic hamstring curl. 
Now, this could be a discussion of is it correlation or causation, but regardless, I think, Every single athlete, if you want to be fast, you better get good at this specific movement, okay? So we wanna see the athlete come down, hit, and try to have minimal hip flexion when they come up, okay? I'll try and demonstrate this as well as I possibly can. I'm not fully warmed up, so bear with me. I'm also fat, old, and 38, and balding, and not as athletic as I used to be. I'm still fast, though. Don't worry. Mom's still proud. Okay. So we want to go down nice and controlled, controlled. Boom. Okay. Now, one of the other big factors is that if we can hold this, I'm going to try this one. 
If we can hold at that flat level and come up quick, we're going to be really, really explosive. Oh, that's too much hip flexion, okay? We wanna see minimal hip flexion. Now the numbers that we're gonna look at, five reps for women that weigh 130 pounds, seven reps for dudes, done without a band, without assistance. So build towards this, but use this movement to improve your hamstring strength and that elasticity of your hamstring. So you can even do really, really cool contrast training with the Nordic curls. You can do this with different plyometrics, sprint drills, whatever you want, isometrics. And that's gonna take us into the next really, of really cool exercise that you need to use to build upon that speed. Okay, now you heard me discuss elasticity and you've heard me discuss moving like a kangaroo, a twitchy kangaroo. 
I think that they have the best image for me. I don't know why, maybe because they're just so freaking jacked and they just sort of, they're springboards, right? They're just bouncing along super, super twitchy, right? That's what we need to build towards when we're trying to train in the weight room, to improve our speed. Now this movement, no one does, okay? Nobody. When we're training, when we do our training, we're working that technical coordination exercises, we're doing power snatches, we're doing cleans. We wanna focus on dynamic trunk control. We wanna focus on improving our speed off the floor because that can help us with that first one, two, three steps, okay? Then we're doing the back squats, the front squats, the single leg squats. 
Those are all gonna help us with the drive phase, with acceleration, and if we're an athlete who's not a sprinter, we need to have the ability to decelerate very very rapidly take someone like nick Singleton, okay? We developed him using single leg squats, using front squats, using back squats so that he was able to slam on the brakes and become one of the most dominant running backs in the NCAA, okay? Now, this last exercise is going to focus on developing elasticity in the ankle joint. in training you to switch very well with those hips while maintaining that elastic joint in the ankle. So these are going to be Planner Flexion Switch Lunges. Now, I want to hold my ankle stiff here, and I have the target forward. 
I wanna be here, come forward without dropping that back ankle. Come back, keep that ankle there. Boom, boom, boom, boom. And we wanna be able to do both sides. If we have a 180-pound dude, I want him holding 25-pound dumbbells without that ankle. When I switch, okay, if I hit the switch here, come forward, without that ankle dropping, okay, without that coming down. Both sides, ankle needs to stay up as we come forward, okay? We don't want to see this plop. If it plops, it lacks that elasticity, okay? We need to think about that springboard, right? And if that's plopping, that's not gonna have that tension, okay? So I wanna see a 25-pound dumbbell in each hand of that 180-pound dude. Chicks, 15-pound dumbbells, six reps on each side for both males and females. 
It's not overly complicated, but it will take about two to three months to really develop that feeling of that switch position, okay? I think these are very, very good exercises that pair well with the Nordic hamstrings and lead to overall development, especially during the acceleration period. So if you can execute this very, very well, you're going to see a drastic improvement in your overall speed. So what's this mean? OK, this is a great starting point. We know what these numbers are. You know where the numbers are in the weight room. OK, so use that as a guide. Yes. there will be anomalies. Please infiltrate the comment section with all of the people who are stronger or weaker that are still fast. I understand it, but these are very, very, very, very good guidelines for you to build towards, okay? 
This doesn't mean that you shouldn't be doing isometric actions. This doesn't mean that you shouldn't be doing plyometric work. It doesn't mean you shouldn't be doing sprints, okay? There's various things that you still need to focus on, but this is a very, very good starting point when we're talking specifically about strength-based numbers. As I spit all over the camera, because I'm so excited about strength-based numbers for speed. So how can we apply this to our overall training? Okay, the first thing that I think we can do, the easiest thing, the lowest hanging fruit, is to build the clean first, okay? Build your clean up, okay? Sorry, there was like a little pun there. But if we can improve our clean, we're gonna see that 
transfer really, really well to the rest of our movement patterns. So use the front squats and the back squats to build that clean even further. Okay, so now you can use something like the clean, improve your strength, improve your power output, and then you can base that success of the clean off of increasing your strength from squatting more or front squatting more. And that's a real key aspect that we've got to think about. And on top of that, I would even use power snatches. You know, we mentioned power snatches as the first key lift. if we use power snatches to prime your nervous system before you actually get into the clean part of your workout. So you can do four sets of power snatches and then after you fix that neural drive and you really start to feel wired up, now you can get into those cleans. 
And a lot of people will comment, how are you training back squats when you also have single leg squats listed as a really important exercise? And I think it's important to note that you can do a back squat on one day, okay, and maybe you push a little bit more weight. then on day three or day four, you can push single legs with that unbroken tempo moving as quickly as possible. And then with nordic hamstring pulls, okay, you can do that two to three days a week. Maybe one day you just use it as a nice, easy warm-up you do it assisted. You just feel the hamstrings really trying to extend your hips. And then you can pick two other days throughout the week that you use it as a hypertrophy movement or as an accessory to keep strengthening that hamstring. 
Now, finally, if we're talking about the ankle switches, you've seen in all of our videos how we love to use PVC pipe walks. One real easy thing that you can do is you can do PVC pipe walks for 15 meters and you can play with the balloon while you're doing that. And then you can do ankle switches contrasting with those PVC pipe walks. You can do that pretty much every day or every other day in training. And that ankle joint will be extraordinarily stable while maintaining that elasticity. If you wanna keep increasing your speed, make sure that you check out this video. And if you guys need help with your overall programming, make sure you pick up our app, Peak Strength. You can head to peakstrength.app, the Apple iOS store, or the Google Play store, where you can get seven free days of training to help build towards those specific numbers to help you become a freak. 
Because remember, freaks, if you wanna become a champion, you've always gotta cultivate your power. Peace. 